codebook/AI_HELPERS.md, before:

# AI Helpers

CodeBook provides a set of AI helpers to help you with your work.

## AI Helper Commands

### `codebook ai help`

Shows the help for the AI helpers.

### `codebook ai review [agent] [path] -- [agent_args]`

Reviews the task with the given agent and path.

Supported agents:
- claude
- codex
- gemini
- opencode
- kimi

Agent arguments are passed to the agent as command line arguments.
Review starts an agent with a specific prompt that can be customized in the [codebook.yml](./CONFIGURATION.md) config file.
Default prompt is:
```
You are a helpful assistant that reviews the task and provides feedback.
You are given a task file that contains a diff of the changes that were made to the codebase.
You need to read the original feature documents that were changed, as well as the diff, and provide feedback on the changes that were made to the codebase. Make sure the documentation describes accurately the changes' functionality.
Append your feedback to the task file starting with the --- REVIEW YYYYMMDDHHMM --- on top. Do not change any other parts of the task file.


This is the task file: [TASK_FILE]
```

#### Examples
```bash
codebook ai review claude ./codebook/tasks/YYYYMMDDHHMM-TITLE.md
```

--- BACKLINKS ---
[README](README.md "codebook:backlink")

Commit message:

Allow task update and ai review to batch-process modified files
- Make task_file and scope optional in 'task update' command
  When not provided, updates all modified/untracked task files using watch_dir from config
- Make path optional in 'ai review' command
  When not provided, reviews all modified/untracked task files
- Extract _update_single_task and _run_agent_review helper functions
- Extract _get_modified_task_files helper to identify task files needing updates
- Add comprehensive tests for batch processing functionality
- Update documentation with new usage examples

codebook/AI_HELPERS.md, after:

# AI Helpers

CodeBook provides a set of AI helpers to help you with your work.

## AI Helper Commands

### `codebook ai help`

Shows the help for the AI helpers.

### `codebook ai review [agent] [path] -- [agent_args]`

Reviews the task with the given agent and path.

Supported agents:
- claude
- codex
- gemini
- opencode
- kimi

Agent arguments are passed to the agent as command line arguments.
Review starts an agent with a specific prompt that can be customized in the [codebook.yml](./CONFIGURATION.md) config file.
Default prompt is:
```
You are a helpful assistant that reviews the task and provides feedback.
You are given a task file that contains a diff of the changes that were made to the codebase.
You need to read the original feature documents that were changed, as well as the diff, and provide feedback on the changes that were made to the codebase. Make sure the documentation describes accurately the changes' functionality.
Append your feedback to the task file starting with the --- REVIEW YYYYMMDDHHMM --- on top. Do not change any other parts of the task file.


This is the task file: [TASK_FILE]
```

#### Examples
```bash
codebook ai review claude ./codebook/tasks/YYYYMMDDHHMM-TITLE.md
```


When no path is provided, all modified and untracked markdown files in the tasks directory are reviewed.
```bash
codebook ai review claude
```

--- BACKLINKS ---
[README](README.md "codebook:backlink")
