codebook/CONFIGURATION.md, before:

# Configuration

CodeBook can be configured via `codebook.yml` for zero-config startup.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Create default config
codebook init

# Run with config
codebook run
```

## Config File Location

CodeBook searches for `codebook.yml` or `codebook.yaml` in:
1. Current directory
2. Parent directories (up to 10 levels)

Or specify explicitly:
```bash
codebook run -c path/to/codebook.yml
```

## Full Configuration Reference

```yaml
# Directory to store specs, features and task files
watch_dir: .

# Directory containing tasks. Automatically ignored in watch and render commands.
tasks_dir: .codebook/tasks

# Enable Python code execution
exec: true

# Watch subdirectories recursively
recursive: true

# HTTP request timeout (seconds)
timeout: 10.0

# Cache TTL for resolved values (seconds)
cache_ttl: 60.0

# Backend server configuration
backend:
  # Backend URL for template resolution
  url: http://localhost:3000

  # Port for mock server (if starting)
  port: 3000

  # Auto-start mock server
  start: true

# Cicada code exploration configuration
cicada:
  # Enable Cicada queries
  enabled: true

  # Cicada server URL
  url: http://localhost:9999

  # Port for Cicada (if starting)
  port: 9999

  # Auto-start Cicada server
  start: true
```

## Minimal Configuration

```yaml
watch_dir: docs
exec: true
cicada:
  enabled: true
```

## Example Configurations

### Documentation Project

```yaml
watch_dir: docs
exec: true
recursive: true
backend:
  url: https://api.myproject.com
  start: false
cicada:
  enabled: false
```

### Local Development

```yaml
watch_dir: .codebook
exec: true
backend:
  start: true
  port: 3000
cicada:
  enabled: true
  start: true
  port: 9999
```

### CI/CD Pipeline

```yaml
watch_dir: docs
exec: false  # Don't execute code in CI
recursive: true
timeout: 30.0
backend:
  url: $BACKEND_URL  # Use environment variable
  start: false
cicada:
  enabled: false
```

## CLI Options

All config values can be overridden via CLI:

```bash
# Override base URL
codebook -b http://custom:3000 run

# Override cicada URL
codebook --cicada-url http://custom:9999 run

# Override timeout
codebook -t 30 run
```

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `CODEBOOK_BASE_URL` | Default backend URL |
| `CICADA_URL` | Default Cicada URL |

## Commands

### codebook init

Create a default `codebook.yml`:

```bash
codebook init
codebook init -o custom-config.yml
```

### codebook run

Run with configuration:

```bash
codebook run              # Use codebook.yml
codebook run -c other.yml # Use specific config
```

### codebook render

One-time render:

```bash
codebook render docs/
codebook render docs/ --exec --cicada
codebook render docs/ --dry-run
```

### codebook watch

Watch for changes:

```bash
codebook watch docs/
codebook watch docs/ --exec --cicada
```

---

Rendered by CodeBook [`026a01a`](codebook:codebook.version)

--- BACKLINKS ---
[Configuration](CLIENT_SERVER.md "codebook:backlink")
[Configuration](README.md "codebook:backlink")

Commit message:

Add AI helper commands for task review
Add `codebook ai` command group with:
- `codebook ai help` - Show available agents and usage
- `codebook ai review [agent] [path]` - Review tasks with AI agents

Supported agents: claude, codex, gemini, opencode, kimi

Features:
- Customizable review prompt via codebook.yml (ai.review_prompt)
- Pass additional arguments to agents with -- separator
- Propagates agent exit codes

Includes 17 new tests and documentation updates.

codebook/CONFIGURATION.md, after:

# Configuration

CodeBook can be configured via `codebook.yml` for zero-config startup.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Create default config
codebook init

# Run with config
codebook run
```

## Config File Location

CodeBook searches for `codebook.yml` or `codebook.yaml` in:
1. Current directory
2. Parent directories (up to 10 levels)

Or specify explicitly:
```bash
codebook run -c path/to/codebook.yml
```

## Full Configuration Reference

```yaml
# Directory to store specs, features and task files
watch_dir: .

# Directory containing tasks. Automatically ignored in watch and render commands.
tasks_dir: .codebook/tasks

# Enable Python code execution
exec: true

# Watch subdirectories recursively
recursive: true

# HTTP request timeout (seconds)
timeout: 10.0

# Cache TTL for resolved values (seconds)
cache_ttl: 60.0

# Backend server configuration
backend:
  # Backend URL for template resolution
  url: http://localhost:3000

  # Port for mock server (if starting)
  port: 3000

  # Auto-start mock server
  start: true

# Cicada code exploration configuration
cicada:
  # Enable Cicada queries
  enabled: true

  # Cicada server URL
  url: http://localhost:9999

  # Port for Cicada (if starting)
  port: 9999

  # Auto-start Cicada server
  start: true

# AI helpers configuration
ai:
  # Custom prompt for `codebook ai review` command
  # Use [TASK_FILE] placeholder for task file path
  review_prompt: |
    You are a helpful assistant that reviews the task and provides feedback.
    You are given a task file that contains a diff of the changes that were made to the codebase.
    You need to read the original feature documents that were changed, as well as the diff, and provide feedback on the changes that were made to the codebase. Make sure the documentation describes accurately the changes' functionality.
    Append your feedback to the task file starting with the --- REVIEW YYYYMMDDHHMM --- on top. Do not change any other parts of the task file.


    This is the task file: [TASK_FILE]
```

## Minimal Configuration

```yaml
watch_dir: docs
exec: true
cicada:
  enabled: true
```

## Example Configurations

### Documentation Project

```yaml
watch_dir: docs
exec: true
recursive: true
backend:
  url: https://api.myproject.com
  start: false
cicada:
  enabled: false
```

### Local Development

```yaml
watch_dir: .codebook
exec: true
backend:
  start: true
  port: 3000
cicada:
  enabled: true
  start: true
  port: 9999
```

### CI/CD Pipeline

```yaml
watch_dir: docs
exec: false  # Don't execute code in CI
recursive: true
timeout: 30.0
backend:
  url: $BACKEND_URL  # Use environment variable
  start: false
cicada:
  enabled: false
```

### Custom AI Review Prompt

```yaml
watch_dir: .codebook
ai:
  review_prompt: |
    Review this task for completeness and accuracy.
    Focus on:
    1. Are all requirements addressed?
    2. Is the documentation clear?
    3. Are there any edge cases missing?

    Task file: [TASK_FILE]
```

## CLI Options

All config values can be overridden via CLI:

```bash
# Override base URL
codebook -b http://custom:3000 run

# Override cicada URL
codebook --cicada-url http://custom:9999 run

# Override timeout
codebook -t 30 run
```

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `CODEBOOK_BASE_URL` | Default backend URL |
| `CICADA_URL` | Default Cicada URL |

## Commands

### codebook init

Create a default `codebook.yml`:

```bash
codebook init
codebook init -o custom-config.yml
```

### codebook run

Run with configuration:

```bash
codebook run              # Use codebook.yml
codebook run -c other.yml # Use specific config
```

### codebook render

One-time render:

```bash
codebook render docs/
codebook render docs/ --exec --cicada
codebook render docs/ --dry-run
```

### codebook watch

Watch for changes:

```bash
codebook watch docs/
codebook watch docs/ --exec --cicada
```

---

Rendered by CodeBook [`026a01a`](codebook:codebook.version)

--- BACKLINKS ---
[Configuration](CLIENT_SERVER.md "codebook:backlink")
[Configuration](README.md "codebook:backlink")
