.codebook/TASKS.md, before:

# Task Management

CodeBook includes a task management feature for capturing documentation changes.

## Creating a Task

```bash
codebook task new "Title of the task" ./scope
```

This creates `.codebook/tasks/YYYYMMDDHHMM-TITLE_OF_THE_TASK.md` containing git diffs for each modified file.

Users can delete the tasks by running `codebook task delete` with the "Title of the task" or without it the pick tool will be used to select the task to delete from the list of tasks.


## Behavior

By default, `task new` only includes files that have uncommitted changes (staged or unstaged).

The title is converted to `UPPER_SNAKE_CASE` for the filename.
And the task is prepended with a generic wrapper describing what to be changed.
This wrapper can be customized by the user by adding -prefix and -suffix to `codebook.yml`

## Examples

### Capture modified docs

```bash
codebook task new "API Documentation Update" ./docs
```

Creates `.codebook/tasks/API_DOCUMENTATION_UPDATE.md` with only the modified markdown files in `./docs`.

### Capture a single file

```bash
codebook task new "README Changes" ./README.md
```

### Capture all files (snapshot)

```bash
codebook task new "Full Docs Snapshot" ./docs --all
```

## Output Format

```markdown
# Title of the task

\`\`\`diff
diff --git a/path/to/file.md b/path/to/file.md
--- a/path/to/file.md
+++ b/path/to/file.md
@@ -1,3 +1,3 @@
-old line
+new line
\`\`\`
```

## Use Cases

- **Pre-commit review**: Capture state before committing documentation changes
- **Change tracking**: Document what changed for a specific feature
- **Rollback reference**: Keep a record of previous content and diffs

---

Rendered by CodeBook [`6742eaf`](codebook:codebook.version)

--- BACKLINKS ---
[Tasks](README.md "codebook:backlink")

Commit message:

Add frontmatter parsing and configuration improvements
- Add frontmatter extraction support to parser with YAML metadata handling
- Extend config module with additional settings and validation
- Improve renderer with enhanced template resolution
- Update documentation with comprehensive feature overview
- Add edge cases documentation and task tracking
- Expand test coverage for parser functionality

.codebook/TASKS.md, after:

# Task Management

CodeBook includes a task management feature for capturing documentation changes.

## Creating a Task

```bash
codebook task new "Title of the task" ./scope
```

This creates `.codebook/tasks/YYYYMMDDHHMM-TITLE_OF_THE_TASK.md` containing git diffs for each modified file.

Users can delete the tasks by running `codebook task delete` with the "Title of the task" or without it the pick tool will be used to select the task to delete from the list of tasks.


## Prefix and Suffix

The task is prepended with a generic wrapper describing what to be changed.
This wrapper can be customized by the user by adding -prefix and -suffix to `codebook.yml`

```yaml
task-prefix: "## TODO: "
task-suffix: "
```

By default the prefix is: 
```markdown
This file is a diff of a feature specification. I want you to change the code to match the new spec.
```
And the suffix is:
```markdown
---
After completing the task, please update the task file with:
- Description of the feature task that was requested
- Short description of the changes that were made and why
Do not include code snippets. Only describe the functional changes that were made.
Do not remove diff lines from the task file.
--- FEATURE TASK ---
...
--- NOTES ---
...
--- SOLUTION ---
```

## Behavior

By default, `task new` only includes files that have uncommitted changes (staged or unstaged).

The title is converted to `UPPER_SNAKE_CASE` for the filename.

## Examples

### Capture modified docs

```bash
codebook task new "API Documentation Update" ./docs
```

Creates `.codebook/tasks/API_DOCUMENTATION_UPDATE.md` with only the modified markdown files in `./docs`.

### Capture a single file

```bash
codebook task new "README Changes" ./README.md
```

### Capture all files (snapshot)

```bash
codebook task new "Full Docs Snapshot" ./docs --all
```

## Output Format

```markdown
# Title of the task

\`\`\`diff
diff --git a/path/to/file.md b/path/to/file.md
--- a/path/to/file.md
+++ b/path/to/file.md
@@ -1,3 +1,3 @@
-old line
+new line
\`\`\`
```

## Use Cases

- **Pre-commit review**: Capture state before committing documentation changes
- **Change tracking**: Document what changed for a specific feature
- **Rollback reference**: Keep a record of previous content and diffs

---

Rendered by CodeBook [`6a297a1`](codebook:codebook.version)

--- BACKLINKS ---
[Tasks](README.md "codebook:backlink")
